all right Joe hey Brett man I really
appreciate you uh helping us out here on
um doing a little session on the master
class thank you very much it's a really
powerful course and I want people to
have an opportunity to kind of get to
know what it is
awesome yeah it's we've gotten a lot of
people asking more about it and I just
thought this would be a cool way to do
it people can decide to listen to it or
not and I'm sure it's going to be better
with your questions so let's let's do it
let's just do a quick and dirty
conversation and throw it out there yeah
let's do it yeah so so tell us tell us
all a little bit about the master class
what's what's the history where'd it
come from yeah so I mean I think you
know this part of it which is you know
before there was the master class there
was the other class courses that I did
and for whatever reason you're not
supposed to do it this way but I did
these 18-month courses to start off with
and you were in the third version of
that and
those 18-month courses is is where I
learned to do a lot of iteration to find
the experiments and the exercises that
people could do that would have the
biggest the biggest difference for them
so when I was doing that I looked and
for exercises
um created exercises that I had done in
my past
and just you know continually iterated
and I found that things that had a
verbal component a physical component an
emotional component were very strong
and I found that if you you couldn't
bypass the intellect but if the
intellect were dominant the power the
power of the exercises and experiments
were
far less and so that became the what I
was looking for in exercises and
and I it was always really important to
me from the beginning just like in my
coaching that
everything is about a person's wisdom
not about my wisdom meaning that there
here's an exercise it's an experiment
you get to learn what you want from it
you have to experience it for it to be
real to you it's not about what somebody
tells you
and so so I did that and came up with
these really cool exercises and learned
how to invent them in a way that was
really meaningful
and then I started to realize to do
these exercises it was important that
they weren't solving the problems that
people think they had they were prob
solving the things that were getting in
the way from getting what they wanted
meaning like a lot of people say oh I
want to do this I want to do that and I
can't and if you
such as like quit smoking or start a
business and if you work directly on the
smoking or the business then it's not
very effective what's more important is
to look at what gets in the way of
quitting smoking or starting the
business for instance and then or just
basically accomplishing what you want
and then to address that stuff so I
always started looking for exercises
that were like that oftentimes it's the
same thing that's stopping somebody from
quitting smoking and starting a business
yes something yeah something deep in
there that if you just address the
starting a business thing you could you
could come up with a to-do list of what
you need to do to start a business but
it'll still be blocked by the
psychological component that's right
yeah when when the big components get
undone you know 10 12 things in a
person's life change that's exactly it
yeah so
and then it became and then and I was
really liking the in-person stuff and
and I wasn't people had said let's do
this online and I wasn't really
compelled to do it
and um and I think I I mean I don't
think I know I had a limiting belief
around that
and then covet hit and when covet hit I
was like bored y'all had lots of living
beliefs that that covered yet yeah
exactly so
um and Thiago approached me uh he does
this course building the second brain
and he approached me and said hey I
really want my
um my audience to be able to experience
you I've experienced you and I think we
can do this online and I was like oh
it's not going to be as powerful you
know was my thought process and
and then uh I just I got bored and I was
like wait hold on a second let's let's
really look at my limiting beliefs here
and I realized first of all that I had
learned completely without any of the
exercises that I created or was teaching
and and then I had learned completely
remotely outside of Silent Meditation
Retreat so I knew that was like wait
hold on now I know there's something
possible here
and I didn't want to give up the
exercises so
I told him yes and and I got a group of
uh students that had worked with me for
some time together and we just started
experimenting every week for a couple
hours we would do exercises online and I
got to see what worked and what didn't
work and what was powerful for them and
what wasn't
and so I built the course around bad
experimentation really seeing what
worked for people and I built it around
the seven things that I saw my clients
and and any students that I'd worked
with really getting in the way of
whatever it is that they wanted to
accomplish
and so I look for exercises around those
seven things and just look for the most
powerful ones well it's a little bit of
a teaser here all seven things are
around around things that happen
generally
um to people that get in their way but
they're also kind of a flip on the way
that you look at things so for instance
the first course the first week of the
course well second I guess it is I talk
about one that's
connection over Perfection so oftentimes
people think that they have to get it
right or be perfect to be to accomplish
something which is really not the case
iteration is a much better approach it's
quicker and you get better results from
it and the trick for a great iteration
is to stay connected with yourself stay
connected with your audience stay
connected with your customers stay
connected with your team and if you can
really focus on the connection and
iterate it's far better than Perfection
you get far better results and so
and that's one example say another
example is defensiveness is something
that most people feel like there is
something that they need to defend and
every time they defend they're cutting
off a certain amount of wisdom so how do
you stay open and loving instead of
defensive and all of us have been in a
business meeting where somebody has been
defensive and you can just see progress
grind to a halt
and so again working with something like
that
and we do exercise the exercises
themselves are something that are like
deeply as you know deeply experiential
not something you find outside of the
course and so they're they're kind of
hard to explain
um
so for instance one exercise that we
work with
is there's just a direct questioning of
somebody where you ask them over and
over again how do you want to be right
now how should you be right now and they
get to experience the difference
physically in their body what it feels
like to tell themselves they should do
stuff and what that creates in their
body and their mind
and then
and then how do you want to be right now
and then what does that create in your
body in your mind and you get to feel it
and you get to feel like how horrible
shoulds are and how stagnant they create
a life and how wants can open things up
so it's it's always about just really
really feeling how it lands in your body
and then seeing the intellectual
ramifications of it
so that's what all the experiments are
and then we do them you do one-on-one
work you do small group work so you do
all these exercises in this way and then
we have that the weekly um rapid fire
coaching that we do
and then the other part to this one I
was like oh there's something about
doing this over eight weeks instead of
doing it like over a weekend or four
days and there's a way in which we can
create like a consistency in people's
lives that allows for a different kind
of change and that's when I got really
excited about doing the Master Class
because I realized a lot of the
experiments that I ran in my own life
or something that I was like oh I'm
gonna do this experiment and I would do
it for like two three four five six
weeks and they would have a huge impact
on me I remember one of the experiments
I did was
um I'm not going to do anything I don't
want to do this week just for a week as
an example
and I ended up doing it for two weeks
and I remember the first week I did that
experiment
I didn't take out the trash I didn't do
all the things I didn't want to do and
then I realized I don't want to live
with stinky house and so I had to learn
how to want to take out the trash which
changed everything for me right where I
realized that how I approached things
was far more important than if I
approached them if I did them or not
they are what you're approaching yeah so
to be able to give people a series of
experiments like that that they can play
with in their real life
that got really exciting to me and so
then that was the last part of the
courses building those things that
homeworks that I had seen work for my
clients that I had seen work for myself
and putting them in so so how does
somebody listening to this tell if they
are a good fit for their course
wow uh good question so I think the way
I think about it is uh
more firstly
if you're not a good fit for the course
meaning it's easier to say what wouldn't
work
so what makes somebody a bad fit is that
if they're not using their skepticism
effectively what do you mean by that
yeah meaning is if you're experimenting
with something it's really important to
be skeptical meaning don't take what I
say as gospel or anybody make sure that
it works for you that's critical but if
you do the skepticism before you do the
experiment you're going to destroy the
experiment meaning we know that whether
it's in
physics or in Psychology if you have a
predetermined idea of what's going to
happen it messes up the
the experiment right it's biased it's
biased that's right so
if you if you can't be skeptical after
the experiment you have to be skeptical
before then it's not it's not as
effective so I wouldn't come if I were
in that shoot if I was in those shoes
um
I I and that's not to say that we do
anything woo-woo we're bit like it's
really important to me that everything
is straightforward has some neurological
um validity to it so but it's really
important to keep that open mind until
the experiment is over and then and then
use your skepticism
yeah to Riff on that a little bit a lot
of a lot of what I've learned from the
courses is recognizing where just our
skepticism or our doubt with ourselves
and our life biases all everything that
we do and just even even noticing that
is part of the process noticing the way
that resistance comes up in the course
or in any other courses or in coaching
yes like the same resistance that would
block me from getting something out of
the course is usually the same kind of
resistance that would block me from
getting
the getting something out of my workout
yeah exactly yeah so yes like so some
people have this idea that personal
transformation is hard
and that would be a block to this uh
course that's fine that it is a block we
have lots of ways of working with that
but if you have a block like that in
this course oh this transformation is
going to be hard then you probably have
a dozen other things that you think are
hard that are also making it hard to
achieve those things whereas if you
realize that it doesn't have to be hard
that it's the way you're looking at it
you get all that freedom so yeah that's
a great point
another thing that makes it so that I
wouldn't do the course is you know if
you have a propensity for a high drama
there's small group work here and there
are certain people who just any work
that they do or any friend group there's
just a tremendous amount of uh friction
that they cause now some friction is
going to be fine it's actually great
because you get to learn a lot through
it but if you're one of those
perpetually
um you know friction creators I would
say be honest about that and don't come
you know don't come to the course that
wouldn't be good and the other the other
thing that would make you not right for
the course is if you can't admit that
there's something you're working on
there are certain people out there who
feel like admitting that there's
anything that they're working on or that
there's something to work on that the
evolution has it has you know has a
place to continue and there's some way
for them to receive more joy or
happiness or accomplishment in their
life if you can't do that
because you're that protected I would
say this isn't the right course there's
there's no answer that's going to be
given to anything besides a question
that you have meaning
yeah I won't coach somebody if they
don't have a question
I don't try to convince anybody of
anything I don't want to
try to get anybody anywhere it's so
motivated by where you want to be and
where you want to go and so if you don't
have that and there's people out there
who don't I would say that is not this
isn't the this isn't the place for you
it'd be a waste your money
yeah so it sounds like all three of
those things that you mentioned the
skepticism or whether you're whether you
like to create drama or find yourself
creating drama in groups or if there's
if you're not able to admit that there's
something that you want to work on all
of that sort of points to sincerity
huh I haven't thought about it
yeah yeah it's like yeah it's totally
true in each of this yeah yeah if you
are sincerely here this is great and if
you're not there's a this would be a
waste of your time and it would hurt
other people in the course so you should
definitely not join
if that's the case yeah
great so then so then let's say somebody
let's let's say somebody has has this
sincerity they really want to take
ownership of what they're getting out of
the course and you know they've got
they've got stuff they want to work on
and so they sign up how do how does
somebody get the most out of the course
yeah
um
this this isn't just in this course but
I would say in life if people ask me and
I think we've talked about this before
what's the leading indicator for
somebody's life transforming it's always
embracing intensity it's
not creating an intensity it's really
going deep in this work and feeling that
uncomfortable part
um I've had people talk about this work
recently I was just
doing a a gig for an alphabet company
yesterday in Santa Fe they were had an
off-site in Santa Fe and
somebody said that it's a little bit
like a teeth cleaning it's not entirely
comfortable
um some of the work but you feel so
great afterwards and that and then I was
like oh yeah that's a that's a pretty
darn good description of some of the
stuff that we do and if you're willing
to really go into the discomfort the
cleaning is far better the the refresh
the clarity everything is far better so
I would say that's how you make the most
of it for sure
yeah I'd add to that there's like
there's a component of looking for
deeper subtleties there's there's a lot
of exercises that at first glance might
feel like they're just a nothing Burger
until you actually do it and like Let
Yourself sit in it and be like wait a
minute what is actually making it so
uncomfortable for me to be doing this
exercise with this group of people and
then like oh the feelings that are
coming up now yeah those are the things
that are driving me and keeping me away
from
you know many many opportunities in life
yeah or for my own growth I can't I'm
I'm smiling so hard right now because
there's there's so many times that
someone's just like wow we've that we've
done something like this before this
isn't going to be useful and then I'm
like just just do it and then they have
that moment of like oh and uh yeah
totally it's true it's one of our
defense mechanisms so yeah I agree
yeah well what else what how else how
else could somebody really get the most
out of it
I would say that's it that's it for the
most out of it but I think that there's
a way to think about it as like
I didn't answer the question of what
would make it a good fit and I think
there is a way to think about that
question which is
um
so let me let me just let me try this
so the first thing that I would say so
if you're sitting here and and you've
gotten this far and you're like okay I
want to know if this is a great fit the
first thing that I would do and I'll
just like guide you through this for a
minute I would
I would first get in touch with the
thing that if you change would improve
your life the most
so I would say take a moment and if you
can't get to it by the time I move on
just press pause and then press play
but really get in touch with like what
is that thing that if it changed it
would improve your life the most that's
the first question and are we talking
about external factors like money are we
talking about internal factors like the
way that I it doesn't matter the way
that I yeah great question bring up
difficult conversation okay they're all
internal eventually but it doesn't
matter if you think about it like yeah I
don't have enough money or whatever yeah
okay and then once you have that really
in your mind then take a moment and see
what your life would look like if it
changed so I don't mean just go okay
yeah now I'd have money I mean take a
look at like how your morning would be
how your day would be
what would your conversations be like
how would you interact with people
differently how would you view yourself
differently when you looked in the
mirror how would it be different
what were what how would you spend your
time over a year differently
so really get in touch with that and
really like visualize Matt for a moment
of what your life looks like if this
thing actually changes
so that would be the second second piece
and then the third piece I would say is
um
consider for a moment that this thing
that would change your life the most it
never changes
see what it's like
because we think about something like
not having money and there's a feeling
of that if we don't have money today but
there's a feeling of that if I'm like 80
and I never never really figured out the
the money thing
or if
um
I never quit smoking or I never
um learned how to lead people or I never
learned how to have the deeper
relationships that I wanted whatever it
is and see what your life looks like
laid out over 80 years with this never
changing and feel that
and again visualize it to visualize how
your time gets spent visualize what's
the work you're doing in the world
okay
visualize how you're interacting with
people yeah
and again if take as much time with this
press pause take as much time with you
and then the last thing I would say to
help you figure out if this is right for
you is um
think about what the blockers are that
are stopping you
from having this change
and and think about the internal
blockers right you think that it's hard
to do it or you think that you have to
be smarter to do it or you get defensive
and so people don't like working with
you or
you are constantly trying to be perfect
or you're scared of what other people
think or you're
um uh scared of feeling so good and that
you have a fear of success
so think about those blockers
and there's at least three
so whatever it is the biggest thing
that's that you want that will change
your life the most there's at least
three things and identify those three
things
at least three of them
and if you want to work on those things
this is the right course for you if you
want to work on the things that are
getting in the way of you getting what
you want here and with everything else
in your life
not the symptoms but the the root cause
then this is the this is the course for
you and you should immediately know like
oh wow this is if I can actually if that
can actually shift then
my whole life is different it's totally
worth the time and energy it takes to do
the work
okay so let's let's walk through that
again just really quickly and that way
people can kind of hit each question
pause and if they want to do the
exercise so
it starts with you know Finding what's
the one thing that if it changed would
improve our life the most yes and then
asking what would our life look like if
it did change kind of going through a
day in the life five ten years from now
or tomorrow if that's tomorrow even
tomorrow is even the best yeah
I'll just say this because a lot of a
lot of times people think that change
takes a long time and I mean you've seen
it oftentimes changes overnight in this
work so definitely tomorrow is a great
way to think about it yeah yeah okay
yeah so yeah it's interesting a lot of
the times the transformation happens no
faster than we think it can happen yeah
so we'll have an epiphany and be like oh
my God I see everything in a totally
different way than I ever did before I
can't wait to get back in the world and
then slowly integrate this into my life
tentatively right over the course of
months
okay we we blew it so let's start from
the top you had it you had a great thing
okay
okay yeah so
straight at the top yeah what's the
thing that if it changed would improve
your life the most
yes next one is looking at what your
life would look like if it did change
tomorrow yes and in the future yeah and
visualize it that's right visualize it
feel it yeah and then the next question
to ask would be what would your life
look like what would your life look like
if it stayed the way it is now forever
yeah that's right now 80 years from now
yes feeling that feeling whatever
disappointment or whatever acceptance or
Joy or yes whatever you might find on
the other side that's right and then
asking what are the blockers that stop
you from having this change you want
right now and having it be fun and easy
that yeah that's a complete thanks for
adding that yeah fun and easy
what would it take for this change to be
able to be possible and to be fun and
easy right awesome and and list anything
that stops that and if you want to work
on the stuff that stops that
then that is this is the course for you
awesome awesome well I'm really looking
forward to this year's course yeah and
it's a fun day ahead of time yeah guys
Brett is red is part bread is part of
the um part of the people leading so
it's fantastic yeah yeah awesome
all right thank you man thank you so
much for taking the time to do this and
I I hope it's helpful for all the people
who are interested in the course
yeah you got it thank you Joe you're
welcome